# TensorFlow World - Talk Proposal

Title: Simple Reproducibility for TensorFlow with Guild AI

Topic: TensorFlow in ML Research

Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MvKLOecT1I

Who for: Machine learning engineers and researchers

How-to vs conceptual: Conceptual

## Description

Guild AI is an open source toolkit that encourages reproducibility for
machine learning engineers and researchers using TenorFlow by
automating time-consuming model build and optimization tasks.

## Abstract

*Detailed description of your presentation, including key audience
takeaways, to help both the program committee and attendees understand
what you will cover.*

Guild AI encourages reproducibility in machine learning with useful
features that speed and improve model development. Rather than burden
engineers and researchers with code changes, complex system
requirements, and new methodologies, Guild fits seamlessly into user
workflows as a simple build tool. It supports state-of-the-art model
optimization that users can leverage without modifying their existing
training scripts.

Guild AI is deeply intetrated with TensorFlow. It automatically
detects hyperparameters and performance metrics and captures the full
details of each training run. Users track experiments simply by
running their scripts. Guild supports in-depth comparison and diffing
across runs, letting users make informed decisions about next steps
without resorting to time-consuming and error prone manual
tracking. Guild additionally supports Bayesian optimization that
intelligently chooses hyperparameters and architectures that improve
model performance.

Guild AI features center on reproducibility. When users systematically
capture experiments - and in a way that supports detailed study and
comparison - they naturally support reproducibility. This is a benefit
to all concerned: model developers create better models in less time
and reviewers can easily reproduce results to confirm claims.

In this presentation, Garrett Smith, lead developer of Guild AI,
discusses the importance of reproducibility in machine learning and
the need to support engineers and researchers with simple tools that
help them build better models. He highlights Guild AI's ability to run
unmodified training scripts, automate hyperparameter search and
optimization, and easily reproduce and compare results. He makes the
case that reproducibility is a benefit to all concerned and need not
be viewed as a tax or burden on machine learning development.

If you're interested in reproducible machine learning or in tools that
support efficient model development, this presentation introduces a
number of key concepts, each with concrete examples, that you can
apply in your work as a machine learning engineer or researcher, both
individually and within a team of collaborators.

## What's the takeaway for the audience?

*Main ideas and/or skills attendees will learn from your presentation;
please be as succinct as possible.*

Attendees learn the following from this presentation:

- Definitions of reproducibility and how they apply to machine
  learning

- Levels of reproducibility (environmental, model performance, runtime
  performance, etc.)

- Approach to reproducibility not requiring code change, advanced
  systems, or new methdologies

- Benefits of run automation, including experiment tracking, model
  optimiation, and reproducibility

While this presentation introduces Guild AI as a tool for
reproducibility, topics are covered at a conceptual level so that
attendees can apply them using other tools and methods.

## Prerequisite knowledge for this presentation

*This information is crucial for attendees. Please describe what skills
and knowledge attendees need to have in order to get the most from
your talk.*

Machine learning engineers and researchers will benefit the most from
this presentation, but anyone interested in reproducibility and
tooling for model development will find the content useful. Experience
with model training and optimization is useful but is not required to
understand the topics covered.
